# Simulation-Analysis-and-Bike-Recommendation-for-We-Doo-s-Evening-Commuter-Townships-Delivery-Service
The aim of the project is to improve delivery services for We-Doo, a business that is revolutionizing evening delivery in commuter areas. Through simulations, the most effective cargo bike range was identified, and performance was evaluated under various circumstances, taking key factors like parcel arrival rates, tour lengths, working times, leftover items, and delivery delays into account. The project provides insightful information and recommendations that direct We-Doo’s bike selection and operational strategies for a successful rollout in commuter townships.
# WORKFLOW 
1. Data Generation: To start the simulation process, data was created for the small township using a method called ”generateData()” in a file called ”GenerateData.ipynb.” The data was generated using the last 4 digits of the student ID (7312). This method helped in making a sample street map with different points where parcels are distributed and where customers are located.
2. Model Development: The next step was to develop the simulation model for We- Doo’s evening delivery services in the commuter township. To do this, Python programming language and relevant libraries like SimPy were used to create a model that shows how the electric cargo bikes move around, how often customers receive parcels, and how the delivery process happened.
3. Model Verification: Before proceeding with the main simulation, model verification and validation were conducted. Model verification means the code has been checked and aligns with the intended logic simulation.
4. Ten (10) simulations were run with various parameter settings to provide reliable and statistically meaningful findings. In general, the simulation was run for 50 days for over 100 customers using the Heuristic Approach.
5. Load Simulator Function: The load generator function was designed to adhere to the desired interarrival time distribution to simulate client package deliveries. The average number of parcels received per day (p) within the defined range of 0.2 ≤ p ≤ 0.3 was used to generate random arrival times for packages at locations via the load simulator function.
6. Statistical Analysis of Result: To get relevant findings, the simulation results were as- sessed when the simulation results were complete. A thorough examination was carried out on various cargo bike ranges (30km, 35km, 40km, 45km) and for various values of p (0.20, 0.24, 0.28, and 0.35) within the assumed range using different metrics such as several performance indicators, daily tour durations, working time, leftover packages, and delivery delays. The simulation output was compiled and analyzed using descriptive statistics such as mean, standard deviation, histograms, and confidence intervals.
7. Results and Interpretation: The simulation study provides important insights into We- Doo’s evening delivery services in commuter townships for both the intended daily delivery capacity and the highest sustainable daily delivery capacity. The simulations were con- ducted for different values of p and r to analyze their impact on the daily tour length, daily working time, number of leftover parcels, and delay time per parcel. Overall, the 45km bike range appears to perform best in terms of reducing delivery delays, with the largest percentage of items delivered without delay. The 30 km bike range performs the least well, with the lowest percentage of items delivered without delay and a greater percentage having delays of more than a day. The findings suggest that the 45km bike range may be the best solution for the ’We-Doo’ start-up firm to maximize its delivery services and provide a great customer experience.
# Tools Used
1. Jupyter Notebook: This was used to analyze simulation data and visualize simulation results.
2. Python: This is a programming language that was use for the generation of the simulation using libraries such as Simpy,matplotlib, pandas, numpy, random and math.
# Reflections and Future Work
The simulation project concluded provided clarity on We- Doo’s delivery services in commuter townships and offered insightful conclusions. The project evaluated the maximum feasible daily delivery capacity and the projected daily delivery capacity. The results demonstrated the effectiveness and capacity of the system to handle customer demand while considering the cargo bike range and operational limitations. Future research should enhance data collection, considering practical limitations, concentrating on sustainability, and investigating innovative technology for more complete and client-centred delivery options.
